---
layout: post
title: "Justice What's the right thing to do"
---

# 1.  Doing the right thing

The hurricane leads to higher prices for ice, bottled water, roof repairs, generators, and motel rooms, which triggers a debate about price gouging. 

So Florida has a law aginst price gouging.

And the debate about price gouging raises hard questions of morality and law: Is it wrong for sellers of goods and services to take advantage of a natural disaster for sellers of goods and services to take advantage of a natural disaster by charging whatever the market will bear? If so, what, if anything, even if doing so interferes with the freedom of buyers and sellers to make whatever deals they choose?

## Welfare, freedom, and Virtue

The questions are not only about how individuals should treat one another. They are also about the law should be, and about how society should organized. They are questions about justice.

The arguments for and against price-gouging law revolve aroud three ideas: **Maximizing welfare, respecting freedom, and promoting virtue**.

The opponents of price-gouging laws has two arguments:

1. Unfettered markets promote the welfare of society as a whole by providing incentices for people to work hard supplying the goods that other people want.
2. Markets respects individual freedom.

The defenders of price-gouging law

1. The welfare of society is not really sereved by the exorbitant prices charged in hard times.
2. Under certain conditions, the free market is not truly free. Buyers under duress have no freedom.

The outraged at price-gougers is anger at injustice. Moral source of the outage: greed that someone suffering in the wake of a hurricane. It is about virtue argument.

When we probe our reactions to price gouging, we find ourselves pulled in two direction: we are outraged whe n people get things they don't deserve; greed that preys on human misery, we think, should be punished, not rewarded. And yet we worry when judgments about virtue find their way into law. 

Dilemma: Does a just society seek to promote the virture of its citizens? or should law be neutral towards competing conceptions of virtue, so that citizens can be free to choose for themselves the best way to live?

For Aristotle, he teaches that justice means giving people what they deserve. And in order to determine who deserves what, we have to determine what virtues are worthy of honor and reward. Law can't be neutral on questions of the good life.(justice start with virtue)

For Kant and Rawls, they think that principles of justice that define our rights should not rest on any particular conception of virtue, or the best way to live, Instead, a just society respects each person's freedom to choose his or her own conception of the good life.(justice starts with freedom)

Thinking about justice is about virtues are worthy of honor and reward, and what way of life a good society should promote, thinking about the best way to live.

##  What wouds deserve Purple Heart

Since 1932, the U.S. military has awarded the medal to soldiers wounded or kiddled in battle by enemy action.

But there is a question about what wouds deserve purple heart?:

1. Physical injuries
2. Mental disorders and psychological injuries

The dispute over Purple Heart illustrates the moral logic of Aristotle's theory of justice. We can't determine who deserves a military medal without asking what virtue the medal properly honors.

These days, most of our arguments about justice are about how to distribute the fruits of properity, or the burdens of hard times, and how to define the basic rights of citizens. Arguments about the rights and wrongs of economic arrangements often leads us back to Aristotle's question of what people morally deserve, and why.

## Bailout Outrage

In 2008, an economic crisis occurred： housing bubble burst, the stock market tanked.President Bush asked Congress for $700 billion to bail out the nation's big banks and financial firms.

But some of the companies now on the public dole were awarding millions of dollars in bonuses to their executives, which set off a firestorm of public protest.

The American public's real objection to the bonuses - and the bailout - is not that they reward greed but that they reward failure. These rewards are subsidized by U.S. taxpayers.

The CEOs of failed companies attributed the failure to economic crisis which is beyond their control. But there is a question: If weather is to blame for the bad years, how can it be that the talent, wisdom, and hard word of bankers, traders, and Wall Street executives are responsible for the stupendous returns that occurred when the sun was shining?

Argument over the bonuses raises questions about who deserves what when times are good. Do the sucessful deserve the bounty that markets bestow upon them, or does that bounty depend on factors beyond their control? And what are the implications for the mutual obligations of citizens - in good times and hard times? 

## Three Approaches to Justice

To ask whether a socitey is just is to ask how it distributes the things we prize- income and wealth, duties and rights, powers and opportunities, offices and honors. A just society distributes these goods in the right way; it gives each person his or her due. The hard question begin when we ask what people are due, and why.

Some of our debates reflects disagreement about what it means to maximize welfare or respect freedom or cultivate virtue. Others involve disagreement about what to do when these ideals conflict.

This book explores the strengths and weaknesses of these three ways of thinking about justice.

1. Maximizing welfare. Utilitarianism, how to seek the greatest happiness for the greatest number
2. Freedom. Repecting certain universal human rights. 
	1. Laissez-faire camp. free-market libertarians who believe that justice consists in repecting and upholding the voluntary choices made by consenting adults.
	2. Faireness camp. Justice requires poltics that remedy social and economic disadvantages and give everyone a faire chance at success
3. Justice as bound up with virtue and the good life

But how exactly can we reason our way from the judgments we make about concrete situation to the principles of justice we believe should apply in all situations?Does moral reasoning consist in?

## The Runaway Trolley

Some moral dilemmas arise from conflicting moral principles. For examples, one principle that comes into play in the trolley story says we should save as many as lives as possible, but another says it is wrong to kill an innocent person, even for a good cause.Confronted with a situation in which sacing a number of lives depends on killing an innocent person, we face a  moral quandary. We must try to figure out which principle has greater weight, or is more appropriate under the circumstances.

## The Afghan Goatherds

A special forces team was sent to Afghanistan to carry out a mission. But they happened to be discoveraged by several Afghan shepherds. The only choice was to kill them or let them go. One of Luttrell's comrades argued for killing the goatherds. Luttrell believed they should be let go. In the end, they released the gotherds. As a result, they were discovered by the Taliban, leading to the sacrifice of his three teammates and the 16 companions who later participated in their rescue. Only he survived， severely injured.


## Moral Dilemmas
As we encounter new situations, we move back an forth between our judgments and our principles, revising each in light of the other. this turning of mind, from the world of action to the realm of reasons and back again, is what moral reflection consists in.

Moral reflection is not a solitary pursuit but a public endeavor.

This book is not a history of ideas, but a journey in moral and political reflection.Its goal is not to show who influenced whom in the history of political thought, but to invite readers to subjects their views about justice to critical examination- to figure out what they whink, and why.

# 2. The greatest happiness principle/ Utilitarianism


Four sailors were stranded at sea in a small lifebat which had no food left. One of them, a cabin boy, was going to die because he drank seawater. The other three resorted to cannibalism and consumed the boy, which allowed them to survive.

There are two opinions about this matter:

First, it can be asked whether the benefits of killing the cabin boy, taken as a whole, really did outweight the cost.

Second, even if, all things considered, the benefits do outweigh the costs, don't we have a nagging sense that killing and eating a defenseless cabin boy is wrong for sense that killing and eating a defenseless cabin boy is wrong for reasons that go beyond the calculation of social costs and benefits? 

We need to explore some big questions of moral and political philosophy: Is morality a matter of counting lives and weighing costs and benefits, or are certain moral duties and human rights so fundamental that they rise above such calculations? And if certain rights are fundamental that they rise above such calculations? And if certain rights are fundamental in this way -- be they natural, or sacred, or inalienable, or categorical--- how can we identify them? 


## Jeremy Bentham's Utilitarianism

Bentham, an English moral pholosopher and legal reformer. Its main idea is simply stated and intuitively appealing: The highest principle of morality is to maximize happiness, the overall balance of pleasure over pain. According to Bentham, the right thing to do is whatever will maximize utility. By "utility", he means whatever produces pleasure or happiness, and whatever prevents pain or suffering.

Bentham arrives at his principle by the following line of reasoning: We are all governed by the feelings of pain and pleasure. They are our "sovereign masters". They govern us in everything we do and also determine what we ought to do. The standard of right and wrong is "fastened to their throne".


### *Rounding up beggers*

"Pauper management" by establishing a self-financing workhouse for the poor. The plan, which sought to reduce the presence of beggars on the streets, offers a vivid illustration of the utilitarian logic.

Encountering beggars on the streets reduces the happiness of passersby. So any citizen who encouted a begger would be empowered to apprehend him and take him to the nearest workhouse. Each begger in the workhouse would have to work to pay off the cost of his or her maintenance.

Before considering some present-day instances of utilitarian thinking, it is worthing asking whether Bentham's philosophy is objectionable, and if so, on what grounds.

## Objection 1: Individual Rights

It fails to respect individual rights.
It violate what we think od as fundamental norms of decency and respect, as the following cases illustrate:

### *Throwing Christians to lions*

In ancient Rome, they threw Christians to the lions in the Coliseum for the amusement of the crowd.

So If enough Romans derive enough pleasure from the violent spectacle, are there any grounds on which a utilitatian can condemn it?

But If these calculations are the only reasons to desist from subjecting Christians to violent death for the sake of entertainment, isn't something of moral importance missing?

### *Is torture ever justified?*

A terrorist suspect who has information about a nuclear device set to go off in Manhattan later the same day. And you have reason to suspect that he planted the bomb. And he refused to admit to being a terrorist or to divulge the bomb's location. Would it be right to tortue him until he tells you where the bomb is and how to disarm it?

Some people believe that it violates human rights and fails to respect the intrinsic dignity of human beings.

But this senario seems to support Bentham's side of argument. It purports to prove that numbers count, so that if enough lives are at stake, we should be willing to override our scruples about dignity and rights. Is it so?

The moral intutitions at work in the ticking time bomb case are not only about costs and benefits, but also about the non-utilitatian idea that terrorists are bad people who deserve to be pubished.

But suppose the only way to induce the terrorist suspect to talk to torture his young daghter(who has no knowledge of her father's nefarious activities). This forces us to assess the utilitarian calculus on its own.


### *The city of happiness*

A story "The Ones Who Walked Away from Omelas": Omelas ---- city of happiness and civic celebration. But the happiness of all citizens in the city are built on the suffering of a child, who remains in a room --- a basement beneath one of Omelas ---  with one locked door and no windows. All the citizens know it . But if the child were brought up into the sunlight our of the vile place, all the prosperity and beauty and delight of Omelas would wither and be destroyed.

It would be wrong to violate the rights of the innocent child, even for the sake of happiness of the multitude.


## Objection 2: A Common Currency of Value


Is it possible to translate all moral goods into a single currency of value without losing something in the translation. 

All values can't be captured by a common currency of value.

### *The benefits of lung cancer*

Philip Morris，is a tabacco company, does big business in the Czech Republic. Warried about the rising health care costs of smoking, the Czech goverment recently cosidered raising taxes on cigarettes. In hopes of fending off the tax increase, Philip Morris commissioned a cost-benefit analysis of the effects of smoking on the Czech national budget: Although smokers impose higher medical costs on the budget while they are alive, they die early, and so save the government considerable sums in health care, pensions and housing for the elderly. Once the "positive effects" of smoking are taken into account --- including cigarette tax revenues and savings due to the premature deaths of smokers -- the next gain to the treasurey is 147 million per year.

Any morally defensible policy toward smoking would have to consider not only the fiscal effects but also the consequences for public health and human well-being.

This takes us back to the question of whether all values can be translated into monetary terms. Consider two uses of cost-benefit analysis that generated moral outrage, not because they didn't calculate the value of human life, but because the did.

### *Exploding gas tank*

Ford Pinto was  one of the best-selling subcompact cars in the US. But its fuel tank was prone to explode when another cat collided with it from the rear. More than five hundred people died when their Pintos burst into flames, and many more suffered sever burn injuries.

But Ford company executives had conducted a cost-benefit analysis and determined that the benefit of fixing it (in lives saved and injuries pervented) were not worth the 11 dollars per cat it would have cost to equip each cat with a device that would have make the gas tank safer. It placed a monetary value on each life lost and injury suffered - 200,000 per life, and 67,000 per injury.

But few people would choose to die in a car crash for 200,000. Most people like living. To meature the full effect on utility of a traffic fatality, one would have to include the victim's loss of future happiness, not only lost earning and funeral costs. What, then, would be a truer estimate of the dollar value of a human life?


### *A discount for seniors*

US EPA: Environmental Protection Agency 
In 2003 EPA presented a cost-benefit analysis of new air pollution stadards. The agency assigned a more generous value to human life than did Ford, but with an age-adjusted twist: 3.7 million per life saved due to cleaner air, except for those older than seventy, whose lives were valued at 2.3 million. 

Critics of utilitarianism think that placing a monetary value on human life is morally obtuse. They think that our hesitation points to something of moral importance -- the idea that it is not possible to measure and compare all values and good on a single scale.

Defenders of cost-benefit think that human life has its price whether we admit or not. They think that our tendency to recoil at placing a monetary value on human life as an impluse we should overcom, a taboo that obstructs clear thinking and rational social choice.


### *Pain for pay*

In the 1930s, Edward Thorndike, a social psychologist, tried to prove what utilitatianism assumes: namely that it is possible to translate our seemimgly disparate desires and aversions into a common currency of pleasure and pain. He conducted a survey, asking the respondents how much they would have to be paind to suffer various experiences. For example: "How much would you have to be paid to have one upper front tooth pulled out?" 4500

He think "The life of a dog or a cat or a chicken .. . consists largely of and is determined by appetites, craving, desires and their gratification ... So also does the life of man, though the appetites and desire are more numerous, subtle, and complicated "

But Thorndike conceded that up to one-third of the respondents stated that no sum would induce them to suffer some of these experiences, suggesting that they considered them "immeasuralbly repugnant".

### *St. Anne's girl*

There may be no knock-down argument for or against the claim that all moral goods can be translated without loss into a single measure of value.

In 1970s, at Oxford, the women's colledge had rules against male gusts staying overnight in women's rooms. These rules were rarely enforced and easily violated. Some older women on the faculty were traditionalist. They opposed allowing unmarried young women to spend the night with men. So they translate their arguments into utilitarian terms: "If men stay overnight , the cost will increase, they will use more hot water. and they will have to replace the mattresses more often"

Finally they reached a compromise: Each women could have a maximum of three overnight guests each week, provided each guest paid fifity pence per night to defray the costs to the college. 

The next day, the headline in the Guardian read "St.Anne's Girls, Fifty Pence a Night". The language of virtue had not translated very well into the language of utility.

## John Stuart Mill


We have considered two objections to Bentham's "greatest happiness " principle --- that it does not gice adequate weight to human dignity and individual rights, and that it wrongly reduces everthing of moral importance to a single scale of pleasure and pain. How compelling are these objections? John Stuart Mill believed they could be answered. A generation after Bentham, he tries to save utilitarianism by recasting it as a more humane, less calculation doctrine.

### *The case for liberty*

Its central principle is that people should be free to do whatever they want, provided they do no harm to others. Goverment may not interfere with individual liberty in order to protect a person from himself, or to impose the majority's beliefs about how best to live. The only actions for which a person is accountable to society, Mill argues, are those that affect others. As long as I am not harming anyone else, my "independence is, of rig
d fddt, absolute, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign".

Respecting individual individual will lead to the greatest human happiness. Allowing the majority to silence dissenters or censor free-thinkers might maximize utility today, but it will make society worse off -- less happy -- in the long run.

"The human faculties of perception, judgment, discriminative feeling, metal activity, and even moral preference, are exercised only in making a choice. He who does anything because it is the custom, make no choice, He gains no practice either in discerning or in desiring what is the best, The mental and moral, like the musculat powers, are improved only by being used.... He who lets the world, or his own portion of it, choose his plan of life for him, has no need of any other faculty than the ape-like one of imitation, He who chooses his plan for himself, employs all his faculties"

Mill concedes that following convetion may lead a person to a satisfying life oath and keep him out of hams's way. "But what will be his comparative worth as a human being?"' he asks, "It really is of importance, not only what men do, but also what manner of men they are that do it".

### *Higher pleasure*

Mill's response to the second objection to utilitarianism -- that it reduces all values to a single scale -- also turns out to lean on moral ideals independent of utility. 

Bentham recognize no qualitative distinction among pleasure. He think pain is pain, pleasure is pleasure. The only basis for judging one experience better or worse than another is the intensity and duration of the pleasure or pain it produces.

For which pleasure are qualitavaluable higher? Mill propose a simple test: Of two pleasures, if there be one to which all or almost all who have experience of both give a decided preference, irrespective of any feeling of moral obligation to prefer it, that is the more desirable pleasure.

But as a way of arriving at qualitative distinctions among pleasures, his test seems open to an obvious objection: Isn't it often the case that we prefer lower pleasures to higher ones? Don't we sometimes prefer lying on the sofa watching sitcoms to reading Plato or going to the opera? And isn't it possible to perfer these undemanding experiences without considering them to be particularly worthwhile?

### *Shakespeare versus The Simpsons*

The result of this experiment pose a challenge to Mill's test. Many students prefer watching Homer Simpson, but still think a Hamlet soliloquy offers a higher pleasure.

Mill does not want to give up the idea that some ways of life are nobler than others, even if the people who live them are less easily satisfied. "A being of higher faculties requires more to make him happy, is capable probably of more acute suffering... than one of an inferior type; but in spite of these liabilities, he can never really wish to sink into what he feels to be a lower grade of existence." Why are we unwilling to trade a life that engages our higher faculties for a life of base contentment? Mill thinks the reason has something to do with "the love of liberty and personal independence" and concludes that "its most appropriate appellation is a sense of dignity, which all human beings possess in one form or other"

Mill concedes that "occasionally, under the influence of temptation," even the best of use postpone higher pleasures to lower ones. Everyone gives in to the impulse to be a couch potato once in a while. But this does not mean we don't know the difference between Rembrandt and reruns. Mill makes this point in a memorable passage:" It is better to be a human being dissatisfied than a pig satisfied; better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied. And if the fool, or the pig, are of a different opinion, it is because they only know their own side of the question."

No longer are de facto desires the sole basis for judging what is noble and what is base. Now the standard derives from an ideal of human dignity independent of our wants and desires. The higher pleasures are not higher because we prefer them; we prefer them because we recognize them as higher. We judge Hamlet as a great art not because we like it more than lesser entertainments, but because it engages our highest faculties and make us more fully human.

As with individual rights, so with higher pleasure: Mill saves utilitarianism from the charge that it reduces everything to a crude calculus of pleasure and pain, but only by invoking a moral ideal of human dignity and personality independent of utility itself.

Of the two great proponents of utilitarianism, Mill was the more human philosopher, Bentham the more consistent one.


# 3. Do we own ourselves?/ libertarianism


